README.md, before:

# Azure Developer Portal

Welcome to the Azure Devoper Portal (ADP) repository. The portal is built using [Backstage](https://backstage.io/).

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Access to a UNIX based operating system. If on Windows it is recommended that you use [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/)
- A GNU-like build environment available at the command line. For example, on Debian/Ubuntu you will want to have the `make` and `build-essential` packages installed
- `curl` or `wget` installed
- [Node.js Active LTS release](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#windows-stable)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Git](https://github.com/git-guides/install-git)

See the [Backstage Getting Started documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites) for the full list of prerequisites.

### Integrations

The portal is integrated with various 3rd party services. Connections to these services are managed through the environment variables below:

- GitHub (via a GitHub app)
- Entra ID/Azure/ADO/Microsoft Graph (via an App Registration). ADO also uses a PAT token in some (very limited) scenarios.
- Azure Managed Grafana
- Azure Blob Storage (for TechDocs)
- AKS

### DevContainers

Development can be done within a devcontainer if you wish. Once the devcontainer is set up, simply fill out the `.env` file at the root and rebuild the container. Once rebuilt, you will need to log into the az cli to the tenant you wish to connect to using `az login --tenant <TenantId>`

If you are using VSCode, the steps are as follows:

1. Install the [DevContainers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
2. Open the command pallet and run the `Dev Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume` command
3. Either select the github option and locate the repo, or enter `https://github.com/DEFRA/adp-portal.git`
4. Once the dev container is ready, open the `.env` file at the root, and fill it out with the variables described below
5. Open the command pallet and run the `Dev Containers: Rebuild Container` command
6. Once the dev container is rebuilt, run `az login --tenant <YOUR_TENANT_ID>`
7. To start the application, run `cd app && yarn dev`

To sign commits using GPG from within the devcontainer, please follow [the steps here](https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/sharing-git-credentials#_sharing-gpg-keys)

### Environment Variables

The application requires the following environment variables to be set. We recommend creating an _env.sh_ file in the root of your repo (this is ignored by Git) and pasting the variables in to this file. Before running the application, run `. ./env.sh` from the root of your repo.

```sh
export GITHUB_APP_ID=""
export GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=""
export GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=""
export GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY=""

export AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID=""
export AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET=""
export AUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT_ID=""

export BACKSTAGE_BACKEND_SECRET=""

export ADO_PAT=""
export ADO_ORGANIZATION=""

export GRAFANA_TOKEN=""
export GRAFANA_ENDPOINT=""

export TECHDOCS_AZURE_BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME=""
export TECHDOCS_AZURE_BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY=""

export ADP_PORTAL_PLATFORM_ADMINS_GROUP=""
export ADP_PORTAL_PROGRAMME_ADMINS_GROUP=""
export ADP_PORTAL_USERS_GROUP=""
export ADP_PORTAL_USERS_GROUP_PREFIX=""

export SND1_CLUSTER_NAME=""
export SND1_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""
export SND2_CLUSTER_NAME=""
export SND2_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""
export SND3_CLUSTER_NAME=""
export SND3_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""

export TZ=utc
```

To convert a GitHub private key into a format that can be used in the `GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable use one of the following scripts:

**Powershell**

```powershell
$rsaprivkey = (Get-Content "private-key.pem" | Out-String) -replace "`r`n", "\n"
```

**Shell**

```sh
awk 'NF {sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",$0;}' private-key.pem > rsaprivkey.txt
```

### Techdocs

A hybrid strategy is implemented for techdocs which means documentation can be generated on the fly by out of the box generator or using an external pipeline.
All generated documentation are stored in Azure blob storage.

For more info please refer : [Ref](./app/packages/backend/src/plugins/techdocs/Techdocs.md)

### Running locally

Run the following commands from the `/app` directory:

```sh
yarn install
yarn dev
```

### Configuration

If you want to override any settings in `./app/app-config.yaml`, create a local configuration file named `app-config.local.yaml` and define your overrides here.

### Mac

You need to have the [azure cli](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-macos) installed and the [azure development](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd?tabs=winget-windows%2Cbrew-mac%2Cscript-linux&pivots=os-mac) client installed

Login into both az, and azd before running the server.

```shell
az login --tenant XXXXX.azure.com
az auth login --tenant-id <your tenant id>
```

You must run the application in the same browser session, that the authentication ran in. If you use a "private window", new session, it will not have access to the required cookies to complete authentication, and you will get a 'user not found' error message

## Feature Requests

If you have an idea for a new feature or an improvement to an existing feature, please follow these steps:

1. Check if the feature has already been requested by searching the project's issue tracker.
2. If the feature hasn't been requested, create a new issue and provide a clear description of the proposed feature and why it would be beneficial.

## Pull Requests

If you're ready to submit your code changes, please follow these steps specified in the [pull_request_template](../.github/pull_request_template.md)

## Code Style Guidelines

To maintain a consistent code style throughout the project, please adhere to the following guidelines:

1. Use descriptive variable and function names.
2. Follow the existing code formatting and indentation style.
3. Write clear and concise comments to explain complex code logic.

## License

Include information about the project's license and any relevant copyright notices.

Commit message:

376110: Upgrade to yarn 4 (#178)
* Populate cache

* Upgrade to yarn 4

README.md, after:

# Azure Developer Portal

Welcome to the Azure Devoper Portal (ADP) repository. The portal is built using [Backstage](https://backstage.io/).

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Access to a UNIX based operating system. If on Windows it is recommended that you use [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/)
- A GNU-like build environment available at the command line. For example, on Debian/Ubuntu you will want to have the `make` and `build-essential` packages installed
- `curl` or `wget` installed
- [Node.js Active LTS release](https://nodejs.org/en/blog/release)
- [Yarn](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install#windows-stable)
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
- [Git](https://github.com/git-guides/install-git)

See the [Backstage Getting Started documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/getting-started/#prerequisites) for the full list of prerequisites.

### Integrations

The portal is integrated with various 3rd party services. Connections to these services are managed through the environment variables below:

- GitHub (via a GitHub app)
- Entra ID/Azure/ADO/Microsoft Graph (via an App Registration). ADO also uses a PAT token in some (very limited) scenarios.
- Azure Managed Grafana
- Azure Blob Storage (for TechDocs)
- AKS

### DevContainers

Development can be done within a devcontainer if you wish. Once the devcontainer is set up, simply fill out the `.env` file at the root and rebuild the container. Once rebuilt, you will need to log into the az cli to the tenant you wish to connect to using `az login --tenant <TenantId>`

If you are using VSCode, the steps are as follows:

1. Install the [DevContainers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
2. Open the command pallet and run the `Dev Containers: Clone Repository in Container Volume` command
3. Either select the github option and locate the repo, or enter `https://github.com/DEFRA/adp-portal.git`
4. Once the dev container is ready, open the `.env` file at the root, and fill it out with the variables described below
5. Open the command pallet and run the `Dev Containers: Rebuild Container` command
6. Once the dev container is rebuilt, run `az login --tenant <YOUR_TENANT_ID>`
7. To start the application, run `cd app && yarn dev`

To sign commits using GPG from within the devcontainer, please follow [the steps here](https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/sharing-git-credentials#_sharing-gpg-keys)

### Environment Variables

The application requires the following environment variables to be set. We recommend creating a `.env` file in the root of your repo (this is ignored by Git) and pasting the variables in to this file. This file will be used whenever you run a script through `yarn` such as `yarn dev`.

```sh
GITHUB_APP_ID=""
GITHUB_CLIENT_ID=""
GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET=""
GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY=""

AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_ID=""
AUTH_MICROSOFT_CLIENT_SECRET=""
AUTH_MICROSOFT_TENANT_ID=""

BACKSTAGE_BACKEND_SECRET=""

ADO_PAT=""
ADO_ORGANIZATION=""

GRAFANA_TOKEN=""
GRAFANA_ENDPOINT=""

TECHDOCS_AZURE_BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_NAME=""
TECHDOCS_AZURE_BLOB_STORAGE_ACCOUNT_KEY=""

ADP_PORTAL_PLATFORM_ADMINS_GROUP=""
ADP_PORTAL_PROGRAMME_ADMINS_GROUP=""
ADP_PORTAL_USERS_GROUP=""
ADP_PORTAL_USERS_GROUP_PREFIX=""

SND1_CLUSTER_NAME=""
SND1_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""
SND2_CLUSTER_NAME=""
SND2_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""
SND3_CLUSTER_NAME=""
SND3_CLUSTER_API_SERVER_ADDRESS=""

TZ=utc
```

To convert a GitHub private key into a format that can be used in the `GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY` environment variable use one of the following scripts:

**Powershell**

```powershell
$rsaprivkey = (Get-Content "private-key.pem" | Out-String) -replace "`r`n", "\n"
```

**Shell**

```sh
awk 'NF {sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",$0;}' private-key.pem > rsaprivkey.txt
```

### Techdocs

A hybrid strategy is implemented for techdocs which means documentation can be generated on the fly by out of the box generator or using an external pipeline.
All generated documentation are stored in Azure blob storage.

For more info please refer : [Ref](./app/packages/backend/src/plugins/techdocs/Techdocs.md)

### Running locally

Run the following commands from the `/app` directory:

```sh
yarn install
yarn dev
```

### Configuration

If you want to override any settings in `./app/app-config.yaml`, create a local configuration file named `app-config.local.yaml` and define your overrides here.

### Mac

You need to have the [azure cli](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/install-azure-cli-macos) installed and the [azure development](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/developer/azure-developer-cli/install-azd?tabs=winget-windows%2Cbrew-mac%2Cscript-linux&pivots=os-mac) client installed

Login into both az, and azd before running the server.

```shell
az login --tenant XXXXX.azure.com
az auth login --tenant-id <your tenant id>
```

You must run the application in the same browser session, that the authentication ran in. If you use a "private window", new session, it will not have access to the required cookies to complete authentication, and you will get a 'user not found' error message

## Feature Requests

If you have an idea for a new feature or an improvement to an existing feature, please follow these steps:

1. Check if the feature has already been requested by searching the project's issue tracker.
2. If the feature hasn't been requested, create a new issue and provide a clear description of the proposed feature and why it would be beneficial.

## Pull Requests

If you're ready to submit your code changes, please follow these steps specified in the [pull_request_template](../.github/pull_request_template.md)

## Code Style Guidelines

To maintain a consistent code style throughout the project, please adhere to the following guidelines:

1. Use descriptive variable and function names.
2. Follow the existing code formatting and indentation style.
3. Write clear and concise comments to explain complex code logic.

## License

Include information about the project's license and any relevant copyright notices.
